# Preface

This Kubernetes booklet is aimed at making a flow that starts from
leaning what a cluster is. To setting up one for practice. Then practicing
until you are confident you can manage one or more professionally in a real
production environment.

## Background

The whole purpose of this content was to record important information that
would help pass the CKA Exam. But it became so much more once started. This
booklet, if you will, jumps directory into things without over explaining. The
author prefers a minimalist/TLDR style of writing. Trying to convey what is
important about things you'll need to remember to become a successful and
knowledgeable Kubernetes administrator.

## Recommendations

* Don't over-study by reading until you memorized. Instead, for areas that
  you want to remember, try paraphrasing them, and remember that.
* For areas that have exercises, repeat them until you can do them in the
  suggested timeframe.
* Check out the [External Resources] when you want to dive deeper into a topic.
* Practice makes perfect (or nearly perfect).
* Learn to navigate the Kubernetes official Docs. By using the headers you
  find on a page as search terms, you can quickly get back to it later.
* If you plan to take the CKA exam, then study all topics as proposed in the
  curriculum until you feel confident.
* Make sure you do not spend too much time looking things up in the Docs during
  the exam. That eats into your time significantly. Your litmus test can be
  this: do the exercises without looking at the Docs for more than copy and
  paste.
* Be fast and breathe by making use of shortcuts like `kubectl` ->
  `alias k=kubectl`.
* The majority of tasks in the CKA will also be around creating Kubernetes
  resources, similar to the CKAD.
* Learn and Study the in-browser scenarios on
  https://killercoda.com/killer-shell-cka (and maybe for CKAD
  https://killercoda.com/killer-shell-ckad)
* Imagine and create your own scenarios to solve.

## External Resources

### Components

* Understanding Kubernetes components and being able to fix and investigate
  clusters:
  https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-cluster
* Know advanced scheduling:
  https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling/kube-scheduler
* When you have to fix a component (like kubelet) in one cluster, just check
  how it's setup on another node in the same or even another cluster. You can
  copy config files over etc.
* If you like you can look at Kubernetes The Hard Way once. But it's NOT
  necessary to do, the CKA is not that complex. But KTHW helps understanding
  the concepts.
* You should install your own cluster using kubeadm (one controlplane, one
  worker) in a VM or using a cloud provider and investigate the components.
* Know how to use `kubeadm` to for example add nodes to a cluster.
* Know how to make Ingress resources.

### CKA Exam Info

* Read the Curriculum
  https://github.com/cncf/curriculum
* Read the Handbook
  https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/tc-docs/certification/lf-handbook2
* Read the important tips
  https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/tc-docs/certification/tips-cka-and-ckad
* Read the FAQ
  https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/tc-docs/certification/faq-cka-ckad

Next: [Control Plane]
---

[External Resources]: #external-resources
[Control Plane]: /kubernetes/001.0-control-plane.md
