# Install AWS Load Balancer Controller

This is a TLDR;

This guide teaches you how to prepare to set up a `self-hosted` Kubernetes
cluster, then install the `AWS Load Balancer Controller`. So its ONLY for
clusters running on EC2 instances in AWS Cloud.

## Prerequisites

### Fix Internet Access for IPv4

WARNING: This method is faster, but will cost you money if you forget to delete
the NAT gateway for even a day.

If you don't want to use S3 as a proxy, you can deploy a NAT gateway. Then add
rules to routing tables attached to private subnets for kubernetes. This should
fix IPv4 internet access for your EC2 instances in the Dual stack VPC.

1. Deploy a NAT to the VPC containing your cluster.
2. Update the route table of all private subnets in the VPC where you deployed
   your cluster nodes:
   1. Add a route for IPv4 traffic to the NAT `0.0.0.0/0 -> NAT`.
   2. Add a rote for IPv6 out to the NAT `64:ff9b::/96 -> NAT`.

NOTE: `64:ff9b::/96` is the IETF-reserved "Well-Known Prefix" (WKP) used for
NAT64 translation, allowing IPv6-only clients to communicate with IPv4-only
servers. It enables embedding a 32-bit IPv4 address into the last 32 bits of an
IPv6 address, commonly used in DNS64/NAT64 environments.

### Add an S3 Bucket Proxy

This bucket will be used to upload files to so that you don't need to deploy
a NAT Gateway to fix IPv4 internet access. Instead, we use an S3 bucket as a
proxy for the files required to set up our cluster. Know that this is mainly
because some sites, like `github.com` do not support IPv6 connections at the
time of writing. If they do, then you can skip this option.

1. Make a new S3 bucket in the same account as your cluster. You can do this
   through the console or CLI.
2. Add an IAM Policy to the control plane EC2 instance role to allow access to
   that S3 bucket.
3. Log into the control plane EC2 instance and install the AWS CLI.
4. In order to download from S3 over IPv6, you'll change the AWS CLI config for
   S3 to allow it to work over IPv6:
   ```shell
   mkdir ~/.aws
   cat <<TXT | tee -a ${HOME}/.aws/config
   [default]
   s3 =
       use_dualstack_endpoint = true
       addressing_style = virtual
   TXT
   ```
5. Back on your local machine, download the following files to a new directory,
   call it `kubernetes-assets`:
   1. https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.20.0/cert-manager.yaml

   NOTE: Use any method you like to download. Also, it does not matter what you
   call the directory, we chose a name to make it simple to write this guide.
6. On your local machine, log into the AWS account you deployed your cluster,
   and then upload the `kubernetes-assets` files to that S3 bucket. Again, you
   can do this through console or the CLI.

## Step 1: Subnet Tagging

**Additional requirements for non-EKS clusters**:
* Ensure subnets are tagged appropriately for auto-discovery to work
* For IP targets, Pods must have IPs from the VPC subnets. You can configure the
  [amazon-vpc-cni-k8s] plugin for this purpose.

Add tags to each subnet in the VPC:

1. Public subnets get a tag: `kubernetes.io/role/elb` set to `1`.
2. Private subnets get a tag: `kubernetes.io/role/internal-elb` set to `1`.
3. Both subnet types get a tag `kubernetes.io/cluster/${cluster-name}` set to
   `owned`.

NOTE: Use "owned" if resources are owned and managed by the cluster. Or
"shared" if resources are shared between clusters, and should not be destroyed
if the cluster is destroyed.

## Step 3: Network configuration

Your node security group must permit incoming traffic on TCP port `9443` from
the Kubernetes control plane. This is needed for webhook access.

## Step 4: Prepare the Cluster

### Install cert-manager

1. First, install `cmctl`:
   ```shell
   wget https://github.com/cert-manager/cmctl/releases/download/v2.4.1/cmctl_linux_amd64
   chmod +x cmctl_linux_amd64
   sudo mv cmctl_linux_amd64 /usr/local/bin/cmctl
   ```
2. Install `cert-manager`
   ```shell
   wget https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.20.0/cert-manager.yaml

   kubectl apply -f cert-manager.yaml
   ```

### Install ECR Credential Provider

1. Download the `ecr-credential-provider` binary to `/usr/local/bin` and set
   `--image-credential-provider-bin-dir=/usr/local/bin/ecr-credential-provider`.
   1. You'll need to build the [ecr-credential-provider] app yourself. I did and
      then uploaded it to an S3 bucket in the same account as my cluster.
   2. Then download it:
      ```shell
      aws s3 cp s3://${BUCKET_NAME}/ecr-credential-provider .
      chmod +x ecr-credential-provider
      sudo mv ./ecr-credential-provider /usr/local/bin
      ```
   3. Test it works:
      ```shell
      echo '{"apiVersion": "credentialprovider.kubelet.k8s.io/v1","image": "602401143452.dkr.ecr.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/amazon-k8s-cni-init","kind":"CredentialProviderRequest"}' | /usr/local/bin/ecr-credential-provider get
      ```
      NOTE: If it hangs, then you'll likely need to allow IPv4 internet access.
      See [Fix Internet Access for IPv4].

2. Update your `kubeadm` config to add the `kubelet` arguments, for example:
   ```yaml
   apiVersion: kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta4
   kind: InitConfiguration
   nodeRegistration:
     kubeletExtraArgs:
       # ...
       - name: image-credential-provider-config
         value: /var/lib/kubelet/credential-provider-config.yaml
       - name: image-credential-provider-bin-dir
         value: /usr/local/bin/ecr-credential-provider
   ```

### Step 3: Install amazon-vpc-cni-k8s CNI

[amazon-vpc-cni-k8s]: https://github.com/aws/amazon-vpc-cni-k8s#readme

1. Install the required [IAM Policy], see the
   [amazon-vpc-cni-k8s-iam-policy.json] sample.
2. Then install the CNI:
   ```shell
   wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aws/amazon-vpc-cni-k8s/v1.21.1/config/master/aws-k8s-cni.yaml
   kubectl apply -f aws-k8s-cni.yaml
   ```
   NOTE: CNI's are installed with a manifest, which you may not have realized
   until now, because you install the CNI plugins manually, and it not
   explicitly stated anywhere that I have read so far. Including any
   helper CLIs the CNI's may require be installed on the Kubelet, for example,
   this CNI will need the `ecr-credential-provider` CLI on the control plane,
   which we had to build and install manually in previous steps.

## Kubelet ECR Access

The kubelet needs credentials in order to be able to download from ECR.

[Configure a kubelet image credential provider]

## Use EC2 Instance Metadata Server version 2

It is recommended to block the access to instance metadata by requiring the
instance to ONLY use IMDSv2. You can configure this in the "Advanced" section
of the EC2 Instance Launch template. But here's how you do it.

1. On your local machine, login to AWS from the CLI `aws sso login`.

   NOTE: Make sure your using the correct AWS profile or credentials.
2. Change to version IMDSv2:
   ```shell
   aws ec2 modify-instance-metadata-options --http-put-response-hop-limit 2 --http-tokens required --region <region> --instance-id <instance-id>
   ```

## Install AWS Cloud Controller Manager

The controller runs on the worker nodes, so it needs access, using AWS
credentials, to the AWS ALB/NLB APIs with IAM permissions.

When using this option, IMDS must be enabled. The controller retrieves the
instance credentials using IMDS.

1. Download the IAM policy to be attached to the instance profile of all nodes:
   ```shell
   curl -L -o iam-policy.json https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller/v3.0.0/docs/install/iam_policy.json
   ```
2. Update the policy to include the following condition for the VPC allowed:
   ```json
   {
     "Effect": "Allow",
     "Action": [
       "ec2:AuthorizeSecurityGroupIngress",
       "ec2:RevokeSecurityGroupIngress"
     ],
     "Resource": "*",
     "Condition": {
       "ArnEquals": {
           "ec2:Vpc": "arn:aws:ec2:<REGION>:<ACCOUNT-ID>:vpc/<VPC-ID>"
       }
     }
   }
   ```
3. Attach the policy to each node (EC2 instance IAM role) in the cluster.

   NOTE: You may have to make a Role and attach that to the EC2 instance first.

4. Node name conventions is "resource based naming". So make sure each node's
   hostname is named after its instance ID.
5. For the `aws-cloud-controller-manager` to be able to communicate to AWS APIs,
   you will need to add a few IAM policies to your EC2 instances. For
   control-planes attach [aws-cloud-controller-manager-control-plane.json] and
   for workers attach [aws-cloud-controller-manager-worker.json].
6. Enable the `KubeletServiceAccountTokenForCredentialProviders` feature.
7. Make a configuration to pass into the `kubelet` to tell it how to use the
   AWS Credential Provider. You will need to pass it into the `kubelet` using
   the `--image-credential-provider-config` option. You can use the sample
   [credential-provider-config.yaml] provided in this repository. Don't forget
   to set the `serviceAccountTokenAudience` value should you use it.

## Resources

You don't need to go through this section now. These are the resources
used to compile this guide.

* [DNS64 and NAT64]
* [AWS Credential Provider]
* [Configure a kubelet image credential provider]
* [AWS Cloud Controller Manager]
* [Install cert-manager using kubectl and static manifests]
* [AWS Load Balancer Controller installation],
* [AWS VPC CNI Preface]
* See AWS Controller Manager [Attach IAM policies to nodes] for more details.

Next: [kubeadm Cluster Install on AWS]

---

[AWS Load Balancer Controller installation]: https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/aws-load-balancer-controller/latest/deploy/installation/
[amazon-vpc-cni-k8s]: https://github.com/aws/amazon-vpc-cni-k8s#readme
[Attach IAM policies to nodes]: https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/aws-load-balancer-controller/latest/deploy/installation/#option-c-attach-iam-policies-to-nodes
[IAM Policy]: https://github.com/aws/amazon-vpc-cni-k8s/blob/master/docs/iam-policy.md
[DNS64 and NAT64]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/nat-gateway-nat64-dns64.html#nat-gateway-nat64-dns64-walkthrough
[Configure a kubelet image credential provider]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-credential-provider/
[Install cert-manager using kubectl and static manifests]: https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/kubectl/
[aws-cloud-controller-manager-control-plane.json]: /kubernetes/samples/aws-cloud-controller-manager-control-plane.json
[aws-cloud-controller-manager-worker.json]: /kubernetes/samples/aws-cloud-controller-manager-worker.json
[Configure a kubelet image credential provider]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-credential-provider/
[AWS Credential Provider]: https://cloud-provider-aws.sigs.k8s.io/credential_provider/
[ecr-credential-provider]: https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-aws/tree/master/cmd/ecr-credential-provider
[amazon-vpc-cni-k8s-iam-policy.json]: /kubernetes/samples/amazon-vpc-cni-k8s-iam-policy.json
[AWS VPC CNI Preface]: /kubernetes/005.5-aws-vpc-cni-preface.md
[AWS Cloud Controller Manager]: https://cloud-provider-aws.sigs.k8s.io/
[kubeadm Cluster Install on AWS]: /kubernetes/005.1-kubeadm-cluster-install-aws.md