# Role Based Access Control

RBAC authorization uses the `rbac.authorization.k8s.io` API group to drive
authorization decisions, allowing you to dynamically configure policies through
the Kubernetes API.

The RBAC API declares four kinds of Kubernetes object: `Role`, `ClusterRole`,
`RoleBinding` and `ClusterRoleBinding`.

To enable RBAC:
1. Start the API server with the `--authorization-mode` flag set to a
   comma-separated list that includes `RBAC`.
2. Or start the API server with the `--authorization-config` flag set
   to a file that includes the RBAC authorizer; for example:
    
   ```yaml
   apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
   kind: AuthorizationConfiguration
   authorizers:
     # ...
     - type: RBAC
     # ...
   ```

An RBAC `Role` or `ClusterRole` contains rules that represent a set of
permissions.

NOTE: Permissions are purely additive (there are no "deny" rules).

A `Role` always sets permissions within a particular namespace; by contrast A
`ClusterRole`, is a non-namespaced resource.

`ClusterRoles` have several uses.
1. define permissions on namespaced resources and be granted access within
   individual namespace(s).
2. define permissions on namespaced resources and be granted access across all
   namespaces.
3. define permissions on cluster-scoped resources.

RoleBinding and ClusterRoleBinding grants the permissions defined in a role to
a user or set of users.

See [Role examples] to begin understanding how to write them.

## X509 Client Certificates

The `common name` of the subject is used as the username for the request.

Client certificates can also indicate a user's group memberships using the
certificate's `organization` fields.

To grant a user or a group permissions in a cluster, you must use
a `RoleBinding` or `ClusterRoleBinding` to bind them to a `Role`
`ClusterRole`.

To include multiple group memberships for a user, include multiple
`organization` fields in the certificate.

## Make A Role

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: developer
  namespace: development
rules:
- apiGroups: [""] # leave it blank for core group.
  resources: [ "pods" ]
  verbs: [ "list", "get", "create", "update", "delete"]
 ```

## Bind A User to A Role

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: developer-binding
  # to limit a user to a namespace, add that here
subjects:
  - kind: User
    name: jump-box
    apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  kind: Role
  name: developer
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```

## Useful Commands:

Example command for making Roles, RoleBindings, ClusterRole, and
ClusterRoleBindings.

* Create a Role named "pod-reader" that allows users to perform get, watch and list on pods:

  ```shell
  kubectl create role pod-reader --verb=get --verb=list --verb=watch --resource=pods
  ```
* Create a Role named "pod-reader" with resourceNames specified:
  ```shell
  kubectl create role pod-reader --verb=get --resource=pods --resource-name=readablepod -
  ```

## Resources

You'll want to review these resource for a deeper understanding.

* [Default roles and role bindings]

---

[Default roles and role bindings]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#default-roles-and-role-bindings
[Role examples]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#role-examples
