# Guides

These guides also serve as answer keys to most of the exercises. It's a good
idea to go through the guides first, then run through the exercises. Be sure to
take breaks in between to increase your chances of maintaining the material.
Repeat them several times over until you get as fast as you can or within the
recommended time.

These guides were written with minimal explanation, and most just list the
steps to perform the actions needed to achieve a goal. That is to make it easy
to remember and repeat. You should also try to do it without the guide, so that
you actually are learning.

There are times when I may explain something that I feel is important for you
to know. Forgive any unnecessary, long windedness.

You will also be supplied with links for reading on the subject from the
original, source. However, some guides won't have sources at all
because some were written by Khalifah, the author of this repository.

## ToC

* [Configuring Pod Containers]
* [Add Metrics Server]
* [Add A User]
* [Configure Kube-Router for Networking]
* [Cluster Maintenance]
* [Networking]
* [Security]

---

[Generate an API Token]: /kubernetes/016.1-generate-an-api-token.md
[Configuring Pod Containers]: /kubernetes/016.2-configuring-pod-containers.md
[Add Metrics Server]: /kubernetes/016.3-add-metrics-server.md
[Add A User]: /kubernetes/016.4-add-a-user.md
[Configure Kube-Router for Networking]: /kubernetes/016.5-configure-kube-router-for-networking.md
[Cluster Maintenance]: /kubernetes/016.6-cluster-maintenance.md
[Networking]: /kubernetes/016.7-networking.md
[Security]: /kubernetes/016.8-security.md
[Deploy AWS Load Balanced Service]: /kubernetes/016.9-deploy-aws-load-balanced-service.md
