# Guides: Configuring Pod Containers

Configuring application containers comprises understanding the following
concepts:

* [Configuring Commands and Arguments on Containers](#configuring-commands-and-arguments-on-containers)
* [You Should Know](#you-should-know)
* [Configuring Environment Variables](#configuring-environment-variables)
* [Using ConfigMap](#using-configmap)
* [Configuring Secrets](#configuring-secrets)

## Configuring Commands and Arguments on Containers

Passing command and arguments occurs in the `spec.containers[].command` field
of a Pod manifest. If you do not provide one in the manifest, then it defaults
to use the container image entrypoint or command (think Dockerfile, it you know
what that is).

**Specify `command` with the shell format**

```yaml
  command: sleep 5
```

**Specify the command and arguments in JSON array format**

```yaml
  command: [ "sleep", "5" ]
```

or more commonly:

```yaml
  command: # NOTE: since sleep will be treated as a string, we want 5 to be
           # treated the same, as array should have 1 type.
    - "sleep"
    - "5"
```

NOTE: It would be an error to specify the command and arguments in a single
string like `"sleep 10"` because it would be treated as one argument. The
first argument of the array is expected to be a valid command that can be
executed in the container when it is running.
So again, the terminal would try to run "sleep 10" as a single command and
throw an error.

**Specify additional argument separate from the command**

```yaml
  command: [ "sleep" ]
  args:
    - 5
```

NOTE: When the container is run, any arguments passed are treated as arguments
to the command. For example, if we built an image named "sleep-process"
with "sleep" as the entrypoint; we could tell it to sleep for 5 seconds by
providing an argument when running the image like so:

```shell
docker run sleep-process 5
```

To make our image more reusable, we can set a default argument by setting a
value for the `CMD` field, in case the user decides to run our "sleep-process"
without any arguments, here's how:

```dockerfile
ENTRYPOINT [ "sleep" ]
CMD [ "5" ]
```

NOTE: Now we can run our image with no arguments or override the default with
10 seconds or whatever we decide, like so:

```shell
docker run sleep-process
docker run sleep-process 10
```

The first would run for 5 seconds (minus any start and shutdown time), and the
second will run for 10 seconds, overriding the default 5 seconds set in the
image.

## You Should Know

When specifying the command in a Pod `spec containers[].command`, it
unintuitively corresponds to the `ENTRYPOINT` of a Dockerfile, and the
`spec containers[].args`, unintuitively correspond to the `CMD` in a Dockerfile.
Please remember that.

For example, it is a common practice to set the entrypoint to an executable.
Then set the `CMD` to the `--help` flag so that when an image is run without
arguments, then the user gets the help/guide for the executable, like so:

```dockerfile
ENTRYPOINT [ "sleep" ]
CMD [ "--help" ]
```

Then in a Pod manifest, you would override the `--help` argument with the value
of `5` like so:
```yaml
  # ...
  spec:
    containers:
      - name: sleep-process
        image: sleep
        args:
          - 5
```

## Configuring Environment Variables

Use the `spec.containers[].env:` field to pass the container environment
variables that will be available at runtime of a Pod.

```yaml
env:
  - name: MY_VAR
    value: abc
  - name: FROM_CONFIG_MAP
    valueFrom:
      configMapKeyRef:
  - name: VAR3
    valueFrom:
      secretKeyRef:
```

## Using ConfigMap

There are 2 steps to using config-maps with Pods.

1. Make the config map
2. Reference the config map

Name configmaps appropriately so you remember where they are used and what they
may contain.

You can make config-maps using:

**imperative way**:

```shell
k create configmap <config-name> --from-literal=<key>=<value>
```

NOTE: You can specify `--from-literal` for additional variables.
When this gets to be too many variables, you can specify the `--from-file`
option with a file containing your variables.

**declarative way**:

**Provide a file**:

```yaml
# app-cm.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: app-config

data:
  VAR1: val1
  VAR2: val2
```

View configmaps:
`k get configmaps`

`k describe configmaps <config-map-name>`


**Reference a Config-Map in a Pod**:

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
    - name:
      envFrom:
        - configMapRef:
            name: app-config
      env:
        - name: VAR1
          valueFrom:
            configMapKeyRef:
              name: app-config
              key: VAR1
      volumeMounts:
        # name must match the volume name below
        - name: app-config-volume
          mountPath: /etc/app-config-volume
          readOnly: true

  volumes:
    - name: app-config-volume
      configMap:
        name: app-config
```

### Configuring Secrets

1. Create a secret
2. Use it in a file

**imperative way**

`kubectl create secret generic --from-literal=key=value`

NOTE: You can supply the `--from-literal` multiple times.

You can also use a file: `k create secret generic -f ...`

**declarative way**

You specify a file.

`k create -f ...`

However, the data for the values needs to be 64bit encoded.

`echo -n 'password' | base64` and paste that in the file for the value.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: app-config

data:
  VAR1: val1
  VAR2: val2
```

View secrets:

`k get secrets`
`k describe secrets`
`k get secrets app-config -o yaml`


decode a secret: `echo "adfafdas= | base64 --decode`

To add a Secret to a pod use the `envFrom.secretRef.name`:


```yaml
spec:
  containers:
    - name: webapp
      envFrom: #Load all secrets from a config-map
        secretRef:
          name: app-config
      env:
        - name: DB_Password
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: app-config
              key: DB_Password
      volumeMounts:
        # name must match the volume name below
        - name: app-config-vol
          mountPath: /opt/secret-volume
          readOnly: true
  volumes:
    - name: app-config-vol
      secret:
        secretName: app-config
```
When you use a volume each secret is stored as a file in the volume
`/opt/app-config/DB_Password`

Secrets are not encrypted, but just encoded. DO NOT check them into your
repository.

* Secrets are NOT encrypted in ETCD.
* Anyone able to create pods/deployment in a namespace can access those secrets.
* Configure least-privilege access to secrets - RBAC
* Consider third party secret store providers like AWS Secrets Manager. Or
  better you can use an S3 bucket for secrets, just encrypt them with you own
  GPG key or something.

```shell
k create secret generic db-secret \
  --from-literal=DB_Host=sql01 \
  --from-literal=DB_User=root \
  --from-literal=DB_Password=password123 \
  --dry-run=client -o yaml
```
