# Guides: Install in the Cloud

Were going to install a kubernetes cluster using EC2 3 machines in the same
AWS region.

It should cost only a few dollars (< $10) if we stick to free tier machines and
AMIs. We also MUST remember to turn off our machines between sessions.

1. Login to the AWS console.
2. Go to VPC and add a new VPC.
   1. Click "VPC and more".
   2. Give it a name, something like "dual-stack".
   3. Set the IPv4 CIDR to `10.0.0.0/16`.
   4. Select "Amazon-provided IPv6 CIDR block".
   5. Leave tenancy at "Default".
   6. 2 AZs and 2 public subnets.
   7. Set Egress only internet gateway to "Yes".
   8. Check both "Enable DNS hostnames" and "Enable DNS resolution".
   9. Click "Create VPC".
3. Setup EC2 machines by making a launch template.
   1. Set the name to `k8s-node`.
   2. Set the description to "Node for a Kubernetes cluster".
   3. For the AMI, search for the latest "Ubuntu Server" image that is free tier.
   4. Instance Type: `t3.small` (free tier)
   5. Key pair: Don't include in template
   6. Subnet: Select the first subnet from the `dual-stack` VPC.
   7. Firewall: Select the default security group.
   8. Network interface:
      1. Device index: 0
      2. IPv6 IPs: Automatically assign
      3. Assign Primary IPv6 IP: Yes
   9. Storage:
      1. Size 25-30GiB
      2. Volume type: gp3
   10. Click create template.
   11. Select the template and launch 3 instance.
   12. Use EC2 instance connect to login to each machine and update their
       hostnames by editing the `/etc/hostname` file and rebooting the machine.

Next: [Setup A Virtual Environment]

---

[Setup A Virtual Environment]: /kubernetes/002.0-setup-a-virtual-environment.md