# Prepare Cloud Machines for Cluster Install

Were going to install a kubernetes cluster using EC2 3 machines in the same
AWS region.

It should cost only a few dollars (< $10) if we stick to free tier machines and
AMIs. We also MUST remember to turn off our machines between sessions.

## Prerequisites

* An AWS account, while its free to make an AWS account, it requires a
  credit-card to start one.
* AWS CLI installed locally on your machine.
* Knowledge of how to log into the AWS account and navigating to the different
  services.
* Knowledge of how to configure AWS CLI to grant you access to log in from the
  CLI.
* Knowledge of using IAM.

## Configure Infrastructure

Normally you'd use some IaC to set this stuff up. But where going to take some
time and do it by hand. If you not already familiar with the AWS console, this
should help you get acquainted.

1. Login to the AWS console.
2. Go to `VPC` service and add a new VPC.
   1. Click "VPC and more".
   2. Give it a name, something like "dual-stack".
   3. Set the IPv4 CIDR to `172.32.0.0/16`.
   4. Select "Amazon-provided IPv6 CIDR block".
   5. Leave tenancy at "Default".
   6. 2 AZs and 2 public subnets.
   7. Set Egress only internet gateway to "Yes".
   8. Set NAT gateways ($): "None", you will manage it to keep cost down.
   9. Check both "Enable DNS hostnames" and "Enable DNS resolution".
   10. For "VPC endpoints" select "S3 Gateway".
   11. Click "Create VPC".
   12. Afterward, edit each subnet
       1. For Auto-assign IP settings check:
           * Enable auto-assign IPv6 address
           * Enable auto-assign public IPv4 address
       2. Set Resource-based name (RBN) settings:
          * Check "Enable resource name DNS A record on launch"
          * Check "Enable resource name DNS AAAA record on launch"
          * For Hostname type select "Resource name"
       3. Check "DNS64 settings"
          NOTE: If you plan to deploy an IPv6 Cluster, then make sure this
          option is left unchecked.
       4. Click "Save"
3. Next Make a VPC endpoint so we can connect to EC2 instances from our local
   machine.
   1. Click "Endpoints" from the side menu.
   2. Select "EC2 Instance Connect Endpoint".
   3. For "Network Settings" Select the "dual-stack" VPC.
   4. For "Security groups" select the default security group.
   5. For "Subnet" Select a private subnet and "DualStack".
   6. Click "Create endpoint".

   NOTE: Remember the subnet you selected, you'll need it later.
4. Setup EC2 machines by making a launch template.
   1. Go to EC2 service and select "Launch Templates" from the side menu.
   2. Select create new template.
   3. Set the name to `k8s-node`.
   4. Set the description to "Node for a Kubernetes cluster".
   5. For the AMI, search for the latest "Ubuntu Server" image that is free
      tier.
   6. Instance Type: `t3.small` (free tier)
   7. Key pair: Don't include in template
   8. Subnet: Select the subnet that contains the
      `EC2 Instance Connect Endpoint` from the `dual-stack` VPC
   9. Firewall: Select the default security group
   10. Network interface:
       1. Device index: 0
       2. IPv6 IPs: Automatically assign
       3. Assign Primary IPv6 IP: Yes
   11. Storage:
       1. Size 30GiB
       2. Volume type: gp3
   12. Advanced details:
       1. For IAM instance profile select an IAM profile if you made one for
          your nodes.
       2. For Hostname type select "Resource name", this is the same as in the
          VPC.
       3. For DNS Hostname, check
          "Enable resource-based IPv4 (A record) DNS requests" and
          "Enable resource-based IPv6 (AAAA record) DNS requests"
       4. For Metadata accessible "Enabled"
       5. For Metadata IPv6 endpoint select "Enabled"
       6. For Metadata version select "V2 only (token required)"
       7. Set Metadata response hop limit to "2"
       8. Add any User data you'd like.
   13. Click create template.
5. Launch 3 EC2 instances using the launch template:
   1. Select the template
   2. Click the "Actions" button
   3. Click "Launch instances from template"
   4. Enter 3
   5. Click Launch.
6. Configure each machine:
   1. Use EC2 instance connect to log in to each machine.
      NOTE: You may need to make an "EC2 instance connect endpoint" if your
      deployed your EC2 instance to a subnet without one.
   2. Set a password for the `ubuntu` user with `sudo passwd ubuntu`, type
      something simple that you will remember like "ubuntu".
   3. Update `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` to `KbdInteractiveAuthentication` to "yes".
   4. Restart the ssh service `sudo systemctl restart ssh.service` or reboot
      the machine.
7. Download the learning repo to get at sample files:
   ```shell
   VER="0.10.0" wget -O learning.tar.gz https://github.com/b01/learning/archive/refs/tags/${VER}.tar.gz
   tar -xzf ~/learning.tar.gz`
   mv /learning/kubernetes/samples .
   rm -rf /learning
   ```

## Use EC2 Instance Metadata Server version 2

It is recommended to block the access to instance metadata by requiring the
instance to ONLY use IMDSv2. If you configured this in the "Advanced" section
of the EC2 Instance Launch template, then you can skip this section.

But here's how you do it in case you did not.

1. On your local machine, login to AWS from the CLI `aws sso login`.

   NOTE: Make sure your using the correct AWS profile or credentials.
2. Change to version IMDSv2:
   ```shell
   aws ec2 modify-instance-metadata-options --http-put-response-hop-limit 2 --http-tokens required --region <region> --instance-id <instance-id>
   ```

## Required Resource Tagging

This is an **Additional requirements for non-EKS clusters**:

We'll need to manually tag resources so they are picked up by the AWS
Controller Manager.

* Ensure subnets are tagged appropriately for auto-discovery to work.
* For IP targets, Pods must have IPs from the VPC subnets. You can configure the
  [amazon-vpc-cni-k8s] plugin for this purpose.

Add tags to each subnet in the VPC:

1. Public subnets get a tag: `kubernetes.io/role/elb` set to `1`.
2. Private subnets get a tag: `kubernetes.io/role/internal-elb` set to `1`.
3. Both subnet types get a tag `kubernetes.io/cluster/<cluster-name>` set to
   `owned`.
4. Each EC2 instance gets a tag `kubernetes.io/cluster/<cluster-name>`. This is
   a requirement for the AWS Cloud Controller manager.

NOTE: Use "owned" if resources are owned and managed by the cluster. Or
"shared" if resources are shared between clusters, and should not be destroyed
if the cluster is destroyed.

If you did not set a cluster name, then the default cluster name is
"kubernetes".

## Step 3: Network configuration

Your node security group must permit incoming traffic on TCP port `9443` from
the Kubernetes control plane. This is needed for webhook access.

Next: [Install Kubernetes Packages]

---

[Install Kubernetes Packages]: /kubernetes/018.2-install-kubernetes-packages.md
