# kubeadm Cluster Install on AWS

1. Start the cluster installation:
   ```shell
   sudo kubeadm config images pull
   sudo kubeadm init --config kubeadm-dual-stack-init-config-aws.yaml
   ```

2. This is an excellent time to perform a backup of the CAs generated by
   `kubeadm`.

   You can get away with just the `/etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.{key,crt}` files
   because they can allow you to use `kubeadm` or manually remake all the
   others. But it is just as easy just back up the entire
   `/etc/kubernetes/pki` directory.
3. Setup shortcuts:
   ```shell
   source <(kubectl completion bash)
   echo "source <(kubectl completion bash)" >> ~/.bashrc
   alias k=kubectl
   complete -o default -F __start_kubectl k
   ```

### Install amazon-vpc-cni-k8s CNI

Before we can add any worker nodes machines we need to add a CNI network.

1. Make a new IAM managed policy and paste in the
   [amazon-vpc-cni-k8s-iam-policy.json] in the samples' folder. See
   [amazon-vpc-cni-k8s IAM Policy] for the source of this policy.
2. Attach the policy to all kubernetes nodes (EC2 instance) IAM roles.
3. Login to the control plane.
4. Then install the CNI:
   ```shell
   wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aws/amazon-vpc-cni-k8s/v1.21.1/config/master/aws-k8s-cni.yaml
   ```
5. Use and editor like vim to search and edit the following:
   * for the `aws-eks-nodeagent` container
     * set `--enable-ipv6` value to `true`
     * set `--enable-network-policy` set to `true`
   * for the `aws-vpc-cni-init` container:
      * set `name: ENABLE_IPv6` to `value: "true"`
   * for the `aws-node` container:
     * set `name: ENABLE_IPv4` to `value: "false"`
       NOTE: VPC CNI can operate in either IPv4 or IPv6 mode.
       Setting ENABLE_IPv4 to true will configure it in IPv4 mode (default
       mode).
       Dual-stack mode isn't yet supported. So, enabling both IPv4 and IPv6
       will be treated as an invalid configuration.
       (source https://github.com/aws/amazon-vpc-cni-k8s)
     * set `ENABLE_PREFIX_DELEGATION` to `true`
       NOTE: IPv6 is only supported in Prefix Delegation mode, so
       ENABLE_PREFIX_DELEGATION needs to be set to true if VPC CNI is
       configured to operate in IPv6 mode. Prefix delegation is only supported
       on nitro instances. (source https://github.com/aws/amazon-vpc-cni-k8s)
     * set `ENABLE_V4_EGRESS` to `true`
       NOTE: When enabled, traffic egressing an IPv6 pod destined to an IPv4 endpoint will be SNAT'ed via the node IPv4 address.
   * save and exit the file.
6. Then apply the manifest with `kubectl apply -f aws-k8s-cni.yaml`.

NOTE: If you run into issues, these containers do not output much logging, even
in debug mode. Try reviewing the `/var/log/aws-routed-eni/ipamd.log` and
`/var/log/aws-routed-eni/plugin.log` files to gain insight.
```shell
sudo tail -f /var/log/aws-routed-eni/ipamd.log
sudo tail -f /var/log/aws-routed-eni/plugin.log
```

NOTE: CNI's are installed with a manifest, which you may not have realized
until now, because you install the CNI plugins manually. Plus, it's not
explicitly stated anywhere that I have read so far.

In addition, some CNI may require external CLIs to be installed on the `kubelet`.
For example, this CNI will need the `ecr-credential-provider` CLI on each node
in the cluster, which we had to build and install manually in previous steps.
All that to say using a poorly documented CNI will lead to many issues and
headaches. Such as this CNI.

Next: [Install AWS Load Balancer Controller]

---

[Install AWS Load Balancer Controller]: /kubernetes/018.5-install-aws-load-balancer-controller.md
[amazon-vpc-cni-k8s-iam-policy.json]: /kubernetes/samples/amazon-vpc-cni-k8s-iam-policy.json
[amazon-vpc-cni-k8s IAM Policy]: https://github.com/aws/amazon-vpc-cni-k8s/blob/master/docs/iam-policy.md
