# Pod

Pod (as in a pod of whales or pea pod) is a group of one or more containers,
with shared storage and network resources, and a specification for how to run
the containers.

Pods are used in two main ways:
* Run a single container.
* Run multiple containers that need to work together, but should be reserved
  for more advanced use cases.

A Pod spec should have at least these top-level fields:
* `apiVersion` - can be `v1` or `apps\v1`.
* `kind` - set to `Pod` to specify its resource type.
* `metadata` - a map which should contain "name", and "labels" fields,
  "labels" can be a map with any keys you desire/need.
* `spec` - additional information pertaining to the object you indicated in
  the `kind` property, refer to documentation for what attributes to use per
  object. When kind is set to a `Pod` we can use the property `containers`
  which is a list; each item in the list is a map, so we can add a
  `name` and `image` to set for a container in the Pod. Adding more than one
  item to the container list will make it a multi-container Pod, which is a more
  advanced use topic. Review the [PodSpec] for more properties that you can use.

```yaml
# pod-definition.yml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: documentation
  labels:
    kind: website
    mode: frontend
    type: static
    format: html
spec:
  containers:
    - name: my-fav-anime
      image: nginx:latest
      ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
```
## Resource Limits

Request how much CPU and memory a Pod should have using the [resources] field
in a PodSpec.

Even set limits to ensure a POD cannot consume more CPU than requested in the
spec.

It can consume more memory than requested. When it does consume more than its
limit, then the Pod will be terminated with an OOM (Out of Memory) error.

It is OK to set the resource request with no limits, this will allow a Pod to
use more CPU when available.

## Useful Commands

Make an alias to `kubectl` on Mac/Linux.
`alias k='kubectl'`

List Pods in all namespaces.
`k get pods -A`

Dump a Pods definition in YAML format.
`k get pod <name> -n <namespace> -o yaml`

Quickly run a Pod, useful for testing and when taking an exam.
`k run nginx --image nginx`

Display more info about Pods.
`k get pods -n <namespace> -o wide`

Quickly generate a Pod specification without deploying the Pod.
`k run redis --image redis123 --dry-run=client -o yaml`

---

[PodSpec]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#PodSpec
[resources]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#resources
